---
published: true
title: PicoCTF 2025: head-dump
date: 2025-06-25 12:30:00 
categories: [PicoCTF, Web Exploitation]
tags: [writeup]
description: This post explains the solution to PicoCTF's head-dump Web Exploitation challenge.
---

### Challenge Description

Welcome to the challenge! In this challenge, you will explore a web application and find an endpoint that exposes a file containing a hidden flag.
The application is a simple blog website where you can read articles about various topics, including an article about API Documentation. Your goal is to explore the application and find the endpoint that generates files holding the server’s memory, where a secret flag is hidden.

### Writeup

Upon launching the challenge, we're directed to a webpage called "PicoCTF News" which is a simple blog page containing four articles and a navigation blurb. Clicking through the "Home", "About Us" and "Services" links offers us nothing notable, so let's try modifying the page URL. Changing it from "http://verbal-sleep.picoctf.net:56245/services" to "http://verbal-sleep.picoctf.net:56245/flag" shows us the error message "Cannot GET /flag". Perhaps we could try using other HTTP methods such as HEAD to see what we get later, but for now, let's review the source code for the primary page.

A brief glance at the source code reveals that the "#API Documentation" tag on the second post links to a new webpage called /api-docs, which contains a list of all the available API endpoints the site uses. Looking through them, the "/heapdump" endpoint stands out. Navigating to it prompts a download for a ".heapsnapshot" file.

Heap Snapshot files are snapshots of a program's heap at a point in time, and often contain objects in memory, classes, metadata, and sometimes, sensitive information. A quick CTRL+F for picoCTF{ flag prefix yields the flag.

### Layman's Summary

This PicoCTF challenge involved carefully examining the site's source code to discover a document detailing the way the website's backend functions. This revealed an endpoint that we could navigate to for debugging information, which revealed sensitive data to us in the form of the flag.

### Real-World Reflection

#### find real world case? 

### Relation to Common Frameworks / Documents

#### Elaborate on these

- OWASP 2019 API3: | Excessive Data Exposure
- OWASP 2023 API3: | Broken Object Property Level Authorization
- CWE-200: | Exposure of Sensitive Information to an Unauthorized Actor
- CWE-489: | Active Debug Code
- CWE-215: | Information Exposure Through Debug Log Files
- MITRE T1594: | Reconnaissance/Search Victim Owned Websites
